============================================================Group: -1============================================================
In the first group , Turvey et al . ( 1981 ) and Turvey ( 1992 ) developed a dispositional theory of affordances , taken as properties of the environment that are complemented by effectivities of animals ( causal propensities to effect a particular action , see section Effectivities ) . Affordances always actualize when both properties are together under the right circumstances ( Turvey , 1992 , p. 178 ) . Stoffregen ( 2003 ) reacts against this view because the idea that affordances are complemented by effectivities implies that affordances are properties of the environment alone , and also thinks that affordances should be better understood as emergent properties of the organismenvironment system ( Stoffregen , 2003 , p. 118 ) . Another aspect of Turvey 's dispositional approach is that , while dispositions never fail to actualize , an animal may fail when is taking advantage of an affordance ( Chemero , 2009 , p. 145 ) . In this sense , the actualization of an affordance is not as rigid as chemical or physical processes , because they are based on the performance of certain abilities . We think that this emphasis on the physicalist model is the reason behind Reed 's understanding of affordances as aspects of the environment that exert selection pressure ( Reed , 1996 , pp . 18 , 31 ) . Chemero considers that this view is equally problematic , because if animals should conform or adapt to the pressures of affordances , then it breaks the organism - environment mutuality or reciprocity ( Chemero , 2009 , p. 146 ) . In addition , Chemero ( 2009 , pp . 120 - 121 , 218 ) considers that affordances should be taken as normative relations of the organism - environment systems , and the set of all affordances for a given organism is its ecological niche . However , this approach is also problematic , since the introduction of normativity in the picture goes against the lawful definition of specificity ( as we will see in Specificity ) and , therefore , against direct perception .

It should be pointed out that the direct perception of neither color nor thickness is relevant to the concept of electric potential . As experienced university instructors , we feel very confident in saying that students in a calculus based electricity and magnetism course should know very well that equipotential lines , an imaginative concept invented for describing properties of electromagnetic fields , have neither thickness nor color of their own . This background knowledge should , according to PSS theory , allow the learner to pay much less attention to these aspects of the perception . As a result , the precise color and thickness of the rings are less likely to be stored as part of the concept in LTM . Even if they are being ( unintentionally ) stored in LTM , and later activated by as part of a new simulation generated upon encountering a new situation , that background knowledge should be sufficient to allow the student to identify these features as irrelevant . Put in layman 's language , we are confident that a college student should always be able to recognize the question " what is the color ( or thickness ) of this equipotential line " as being meaningless , even if they were shown colorful equipotential lines during instruction . ( In fact , one can not show a " colorless " representation , as it would be invisible . ) As potential differences are represented by colored rings , the local electric field could naturally be represented by radiating arrows in between those rings . The density and gray scale of the arrows roughly correspond to the average magnitude of the local electric field [ compare between Figs . 7(i ) and 7(ii ) ] . Compared to the holistic field line representation , this piecewise representation visually resembles a fragmented , " accumulatable " substance .

However , after Strava had revealed that a particular stretch of the path around the lake was significant for competition as a ' segment ' within the Strava community , the runner ' saw ' that section of path differently and moved differently through it . Drawing on Gibson , we can interpret this change ecologically as a change in direct perception that occurred through a narrowing of attention to the environment . During these runs , the section of the path around the lake was perceived as ' more focal ' , while other features of the environment in this place were perceived as more peripheral . Once the runner passed the lake , however , her attention to the environment was less upon the path and returned to taking in other features of the environment in the usual way . This shift in attention occurred on the runs that followed looking at the app while stationary . Inspecting its depictions of the section of lake as a ' segment ' of a ' competition ' had given significance to a formerly undifferentiated part of the environment . In the following , we interpret this change , and its subsequent reinforcement , as an education of attention .

Taken together , the examples in Sects . 3.2.1 and 3.2.2 show that mindreading does not only occur in the periphery of our everyday life social understanding . We do not assume that mindreading is the only epistemic strategy used in many prototypical situations without also making use of forms of direct perception or rule projection . However , mindreading is central to our social lives . It comes into play in critical situations when direct perception and rule projection have failed ( e.g. deception ) and it opens up new social spheres that would otherwise not be accessible ( e.g. when getting to know new people or deliberating about their mental states when not directly engaging with them ) . Although they may be less frequent , these situations prove central to the generation and maintenance of personally and professionally significant relationships .

A look into some of Dharmakīrti 's analytical concepts will provide us with a clearer notion of what I mean by the concept of Buddhist realism . Buddhist logic is often referred to as Pramāṇa Theory , indicating an analytical approach to the instruments of knowledge , or pramāṇa . Since such instruments are listed as perception and cognition , Pramāṇa Theory amounts to a philosophy of mind based on logic . Such logic reveals the possibility of two forms of valid cognition , one realized through direct perception ( pratyakṣa ) and another resulting from inference ( anumāna ) . It is from Dharmakīrti 's analysis of inference that we will perceive the Buddhist avowal of description as a means to access reality as such , disclosing thus the notion of Buddhist realism . Regarding Dharmakīrti 's Pramāṇa Theory , John Dunne writes : Pramāṇa Theory generally speak of two forms of inference : " inference for oneself " ( svārthānumāna ) and " inference - for - others " ( parārthānumāna ) . The former is simply an inferential cognition : one looks at a smoky room , for example , and ( with other conditions in place ) one infers that fire is present . In contrast , an inference - for - others is one that is stated verbally so as to induce an inferential cognition in another person . In other words , this latter " inference " ( which is actually a series of statements and not an inference ) is meant to result in another person having his own inference - for - oneself in regard to the question at hand . ( DUNNE 2004 : 25 ) The idea of parārthānumāna clearly amounts to the structuring of a narrative . This series of statements , as far as they are a means of valid cognition , establish reality and truth in a descriptive way not contrary to literary realism . Dunne goes on to explain in detail the basic structure of Dharmakīrtian inference : S is P because E A typical example if this type of inference is : The hill ( S ) is a locus of fire ( P ) because of the presence of smoke ( E ) .

other words , what has the luxury of being a purely theoretical issue for philosophers is much more pressing for practitioners , and we hope to concretize some of this theory for researchers to take up in practice . In approaching these interactions as involving sociomorphing instead ( or alongside ) of anthropomorphizing , we shift our focus to the actual capacities of the artificial system instead of fictionalizing the interaction as if it were between just human interactors . When I interact with another person , I know that the social capacities for our interactions are more or less symmetrically distributed , and that guides the perspectives I take on such an interaction . But when we interact with some kinds of social robots or animals , the authors argue that part of what we do is generate a new model that tries to account for the asymmetry of the interaction . Sociomorphing involves all of the following ( p. 58 ): " ( S1 ) it is direct perception ; ( S2 ) it is a perception of non - human characteristics and capacities ( which resemble certain characteristics and capacities familiar from human social interaction to different and possibly very low degrees ) in non - human entities and circumstances ; ( S3 ) it both arises in and guides interactive sense - making in a situation of practical interaction ( or the perception of an interaction ) ; ( S4 ) it typically occurs preconsciously but may also occur consciously ; and ( S5 ) it pertains to ( relative to an external observer ) actual features of non - human entities and characteristics . " We implicitly pick up on the shifting perspectives needed to move from symmetrical to asymmetrical social interactions , largely shifting the second - person perspective ( see Figure 1 ) . If we look at this figure , we can see the seven perspectival perceptions of an asymmetrical social interaction with a social robot as described by Seibt et al . In a default social interaction , for example between two peers , they sociomorph one another using that default second - person perspective with the assumption that " the capacities required for the present kind of social interactions are symmetrically distributed " ( 61 ) . However , in this figure , we can see how the human , possibly implicitly , understands that the robot will take the human 's actions differently than a peer would , and changes the interaction accordingly . My understanding of my own action is different when I consider ( through the second person ) how my actions are being perceived by a robot or a dog ( for example ) . There would be a cascade of changes given the " non - default " ness of an asymmetrical situation . While the authors here point out seven specific perspectives involved in this sort of interaction , elsewhere they write that social interactions have " irreducible perspectival complexity " ( Seibt , 2018 , 140;Seibt et al . , 2020a , 137 ) . We suspect that the designers of the robot also need to be represented in this picture , as the human interacting with it will tend to default to what they think the system was designed to do , but detailing the richness of these perspectives is beyond the scope of this paper 4 .

While only briefly elaborated upon here , social cues and social signals represent the fourth component of our framework for integrating social cognition . The ability to perceive projectable properties and infer non - projectable properties of stimuli in the environment has provided humans with an extended ability for adaptive and flexible interaction with the environment . This is an essential social cognitive capacity given the extent to which the environments in which humans operate are fundamentally social in nature ( Kaschak and Maner , 2009 ) . As is currently known , humans exhibit the most complex social activity observed spanning varying levels of social interaction , relations , and hierarchies ( Barrett et al . , 2007 ) . Therefore , to us , it seems plausible that , because social information is so complex , it is not always directly perceivable . However , there appears to be evidence that the human perceptual system is equipped to directly perceive social information , in the same way that it is equipped to directly perceive physical information about the environment . Norman ( 2002 ) reviewed psychological , neuroscientific , and neuropsychological findings on the ventral and dorsal visual systems in an attempt to draw parallels between the two visual systems and constructivist ( i.e. , inferential ) and ecological accounts of perception . Relevant here , Norman ( 2002 ) proposed that a primary function of the dorsal system is to enable visually guided behavior in our everyday life ( see also , Milner , 1998;Milner and Goodale , 2006;Binsted et al . , 2007 ) . Accordingly , the dorsal system processes visual information more quickly because the magnocellular visual pathway ( M - pathway ) , which provides direct input to the dorsal system , has a higher temporal sensitivity . Further , the dorsal system does not necessarily result in conscious awareness of the perceived objects . This is supported by evidence from patients with damaged or destroyed ventral systems but intact dorsal systems who fail at identifying the perceptual qualities of objects ( e.g. , size , shape ) , but nonetheless enact appropriate motor programmes when interacting with those objects ( e.g. , accurate gripping of the object ; Milner , 1998;James et al . , 2003 ) . Likewise , the dorsal system does not appear to rely on long - term representational memory , as the execution of actions only requires short - term storage of information . From this , Norman ( 2002 ) argued that the functions of dorsal system align well with ecological psychology 's theories of visual perception . Put another way , the dorsal system may be the visual system allowing for direct perception as argued by Gibson ( 1979 ) . Though Norman 's primary focus was on how the ventral and dorsal systems process the physical properties of objects , we suggest that the same functions might allow for visually guided social behavior in response to processing social cues and signals . Norman characterizes the dorsal ventral system analogously to descriptions of Type 1 processes described earlier ( see , Evans and Stanovich , 2013 ) , making it an appealing candidate for integration into a framework of social cognition at the sub - personal level .

As we have explained , in the Gibsonian conceptualization of affordance there exists an almost automatic relationship between perception and action . This notion of " direct perception , " " sense of immediacy , " or " automaticity " which is crucial in the Gibsonian framework , was critiqued by subsequent scholarship ( see Stoffregen , 2003 ) . For instance , cognitive scientists argued that perception of an object and its action possibilities could by no means be an automatic process , as perception is influenced by other factors , such as the optical abilities of subjects , or the memory of past experiences with that object ( Fodor & Pylyshyn , 1981;Horton et al . , 2012 ) .

It is first important to notice that although conventional accounts depict riken no ken as a form of awareness in which the actor occupies an external point of view of the audience , Zeami himself does not advance this metaphor in presenting this concept . Rather , he only talks about " seeing with the same mind as the audience " . Contemporary readers might easily associate this with imaginative perspective - taking , but other interpretations are also possible . We propose to read it as saying that riken no ken involves the realization of a common perspective between the actor and the audience . Of course , we are here not talking about a common spatial point of view : the actor obviously can not really overlap spatially with the audience . Instead , the situated normativity account we are advancing holds that the actor in riken no ken -- here considered as an affective direct perception of socio - culturally constituted affordances -- and the audience are aware of the performance " with the same mind " by realizing a common affective and normative perspective .

Returning to social perception , a further step in knowing another person beyond direct perception of their intentions and emotions is becoming aware of the qualities involved in the perceptions of their bodily actions . Once autonomy is established through embodied interactions , one can perceive another 's actions with certain qualities according to implicit normativity . The other 's facial expressions may be natural , forced , relaxed , innocent , or artificial ; bodily movements and gestures may be smooth , exaggerated , awkward , or graceful ; and voices may be high - pitched , gloomy , loud , or lively . All these qualities are not merely subjective judgments ; they are derived from the normativity of autonomous interactions and perceived as subtle deviations from it . Some of these qualities may be expected , appropriate , desirable , natural , suitable , or acceptable to facilitate interaction process , whereas others may not .

============================================================Group: 0============================================================
It is important to note that , for Husserl , what we perceive is not the sense - data of the objects themselves , but rather " merely subjectiverelative " experiences and intuitions of the world ( Husserl 125 ) . These subjective - relative intuitions are self - evident in that they appear immediately present to us as things - in - themselves : even inductive truths stem from and make recourse to self - evident intuitions and experiences in order to be verified inter - subjectively ( 128 ) . The life - world is thus the horizon for the matrix of possible intuitions and possible experiences . This horizon - characteristic of the life - world is also the condition for anticipation and prediction / projection of phenomena : for instance , when we have an intuition of one surface of an object , we often intuitively grasp the object in its " entirety"-even the surfaces and sides concealed from our direct perception . This is , in part , why even the modes of phenomena - whether they be " actual , " " virtual , " " illusory , " " possible"are considered part of the life - world .

Alston presents his work as a phenomenological examination of the awareness of God . The phenomenological character of Alston 's approach appears insofar as he insists that one take seriously the individual 's account of what he or she is experiencing , whatever reasons might exist for doubting whether God is actually being experienced by them . As Alston expresses it , " Who is in a better position to determine whether S is having an experience as if of something 's presenting itself to S as φ than S?"35 He contends that a direct perception of God takes place through an act of consciousness that is different from God , its object , and , though one can be immediately aware of this act , the act itself is not directly perceived.36 Alston acknowledges that those who reject the supposition that God exists might be reluctant to accept at face value reports of such perceptual experiences , but he insists , nevertheless , in agreement with the phenomenological tradition , that the experience of those who have such perceptions ought to be taken seriously . For Alston , " the experiences in question are taken by the subject to be an awareness of God ( or would be so taken if the question arose)."37 Again in phenomenological style , he emphasizes that first one examine these experiences instead of immediately dismissing them as merely " subjective " experiences that are only the product of objective causal processes ( e.g. , brain processes or psychological neuroses ) of which the subject of such experiences is unaware.38 Such a causal explaining away of the subjective experience seems to be " flying in the face of the unambiguous testimony of experience,"39 whatever subliminal causal features might be at play in such experience . Indeed , even in regular sense perception , all kinds of neural and chemical processes play a subsidiary role in making perception possible , but the perceptual experience itself can be described in its own right and is not reducible to those processes . Alston also argues that this layer of perception of God underpins the higher - level intimate relationship of love , devotion , and dialogue between God and the believer . Listening to or loving God presupposes a ( non - sensual ) perceptual experience of God just as one could not love one 's spouse without having cognitive access to her through perception .

One might object , however , to the idea that there is a direct perception of God since God is not sensibly given . To respond to such an objection , Alston argues that experience of God as described by mystics consists in a non - sensory perception that is only analogous to sensory perception . On the one hand , non - sensory perception differs from sense - perception insofar as it lacks sensory qualia . But , on the other hand , it resembles sense perception since it involves the experience of something presenting itself to one 's experience and thereby contrasts with one merely thinking about God , calling up mental images , or entertaining propositions . Here Alston 's account of religious experience converges with the Schutzian phenomenology given above insofar as God is not experienced as a distant , inferentially constructed 35 Ibid . ,40 . 36 Alston , Perceiving God,10,[39][40][41][42][43]205 . 37 Ibid . ,1,11,43 . 38 John McDowell comments on how sub - personal informational process systems are at work sub rosa in any perceptual experience , and what is given to the perceiver , even frogs , is the much richer content of what we report in our common sense ( or phenomenological ) descriptions , see John McDowell , " The Content of Perceptual Experience , " 190 - 205 . 39 Alston , Perceiving God , 16 , see also 66 - 67 .

While Travis and Brewer discuss where intentionalism and Naïve Realism sit with respect to the traditional debate about direct versus indirect realism , M. G. F. Martin sees the intentional approach as addressing the same concerns that were central to that debate , i.e. how objects determine the phenomenal character of experience . However , according to Martin , intentionalism does so in a way that widens the debate and renders the old dispute about the ' direct object ' of perception outdated . With the introduction of the intentional framework , " the question now is not only which objects can feature in our experience , but how they can so feature " ( this issue ) . Although the terms of the traditional debate are narrower than they need to be and " it might be proper to retire talk of direct perception and direct realism " , Martin argues , contrary to Austin ( 1962 ) , that the traditional debate over direct realism is not empty or ill - defined , nor it is obvious or trivial in the way that Chisholm ( 1957 ) and others have contended . Instead , Martin proposes an illuminating reading of the significance of this debate , focusing on ' Seeing Surfaces and Physical Objects ' in which Thompson Clarke ( 1965 ) takes issue with G. E. Moore 's claim that we only see the surfaces of objects . Although Clarke ultimately rejects Moore 's claim , he maintains that the question is serious and not trivial . If it turned out that , when seeing a tomato , we can only directly see its facing surfaces , we would hardly be better off than in a case where a portion of the tomato were sliced off and occluded the rest of it . We would not be related to the tomato in virtue of being related to the surface ; we would be cut off from it .

The conceptual proliferation ( PRAPAÑCA ) , as described above , refers to the tendency to superimpose the perspective of ego throughout all of one 's sensory experience via the medium of concept ( Buswell and Lopez , 2013 ) . PRAPAÑCA develops when the mind is already infused with conceptual thoughts ( VIKALPA ) that can be proliferated . Conceptual thoughts ( VIKALPA ) operate through the medium of generic images ( SĀMĀNYALAKS . AN . A ) , i.e. , mental images or qualities that are generic to a class of phenomena , as opposed to those specific qualities that are unique to a given object . Closely related to VIKALPA is a mental factor of thinking or applied thought ( VITARKA ) , which refers to a mental factor of an initial engagement of or inquiry into an object that is not sufficient for a full - blown VIKALPA ( Tenzin Gyatso , 2020 ) . Both conceptual thoughts ( VIKALPA ) and conceptual constructions ( KALPANĀ ) are often contrasted against the direct perception ( PRATYAKS . A ) , especially yogic direct perception ( YOGIPRATYAKS . A ) , in which reality is perceived directly without the medium of mental images ( Buswell and Lopez , 2013 ) .

The compatibility with subjective idealism or solipsism does not constitute a conclusive reason to abandon quality internalism . The internalist can argue that we must live with this possibility and that , nevertheless , quality internalism is still the best theory that is available . However , this problem puts pressure on this view and gives a reason for searching for an alternative position , which would not give rise to the sceptical hypothesis . It is precisely this alleged advantage over quality internalism that is claimed by proponents of naïve realism , whose thesis that we are in direct contact with mind - independent objects should dismantle the sceptical scenarios . For example , Gibson claims that a virtue of his theory of direct perception is that it avoids the " ridiculous pit of solipsism " ( Gibson 1967 : 171 ) . However , as I have argued ( sec . 2.1 ) , when trying to account for the problem of perception , both naïve realism and externalist representationalism become very close to quality internalism and this means that they can not really rule out the solipsistic hypothesis .

As is well known , Abhinavagupta reworked the ideas of his precursors , particularly those of Bhat˙ṫanāyaka and Ā nandavardhana , into the foundational blocks of his own celebrated theory . Abhinavagupta 's theory also became a major source of reference for the works that Rāmacandra and Guṅacandra used , such as the Kāvyaprakāśa of Mammaṫa ( c. 1025 ) and the Kāvyānuśāsana of Hemacandra ( twelfth century ) . Both texts largely restate Abhinavagupta 's theory of rasa production and aesthetic experience . Abhinavagupta confined rasa to drama , suggesting that poetry is an imitation of drama , and located the savoring of rasa in the spectator . He defined the savoring of rasa in a variety of ways : aesthetic enjoyment ( bhoga ) , delight ( camatkāra ) , and , ultimately , mental repose ( viśrānti ) or the experience of one 's pure consciousness , free from aberration ( saṅkaṭa ) and illusion ( moha ) . 76 Aesthetic experience begins after understanding the meaning of the sentence ; this is when the self goes into the state of cognitive abstraction and savors its own unobscured awareness as camatkāra . 77 For both Bhaṫt˙anāyaka and Abhinavagupta , the savoring of rasa is brought about ( bhāvyamāna ) by aesthetic elements such as vibhāvas and anubhāvas and is characterized by the process of universalization ( sādhāraṇīkaraṇa ) . 78 The spectator identifies with the emotional states of the character , while transcending the particularities of the situation , including notions of pain , pleasure , place , or reason . In a staged drama , the audience perceives ( pratīti ) Rāma 's love for Sītā through the characters ( ālambanavibhāvas , " foundational factors " ) and their physical reactions ( anubhāvas ) . But the erotic rasa is relished as the pure emotion itself , devoid of the particularity of Sītā . This sort of aesthetic pleasure is akin to that of the highest bliss , in which the Supreme is experienced ( brahmāsvāda ) . For Abhinavagupta , the nature of aesthetic experience has nothing in common with quotidian situations in people 's lives : 79 What aesthetic relish ( rasatā ) would there be in the mere inference of emotional states that are found in the everyday world ? The relishing of rasa is a supernormal ( alaukika ) delight . It consists in savoring the vibhāvas , etc . , which are found in poetry , and it must not be degraded to the level of memory and inference , or the like . 80 Rāmacandra and Guṅacandra borrow this terminology to express a different meaning . 81 While for Abhinavagupta the savoring of rasa consists in supermundane delight and causes " the dissolution of the spectator 's personality , " the Jain 76 See Masson and Patwardhan ( 1969 , p. 77 ) . 77 Abhinavabhāratī p. 273 : sa cāvighnā saṃvic camatkāraḥ | 78 Ibid . See Pollock ( 2010 ) and Granoff ( 2016 , pp . 283 - 284 ) , n. 6 . 79 Bhaṫṫanāyaka compared this feeling with Yogis ' elevated state ; see Shulman ( 2012 , pp . 65 , 294 , n. 48 ) ; see also Gnoli ( 1968 , p. 48 ) . 80 Tr . by Ingalls et al . ( 1990 , p. 191 theoreticians envision the savoring of pleasurable and unpleasurable rasas as a lifelike diverse experience of joy and pain that " involves continuous cognitive activity in the course of watching the drama . " 82 They emerge as early psychologists who postulate that people do not always know the true causes of their emotional states and assume incorrect conclusions : the spectators post factum misattribute the feeling of the highest bliss ( paramānanda ) to the effects of rasas . If for Abhinavagupta aesthetic pleasure implies the removal of delusion , which unveils pure consciousness , for Rāmacandra and Guṅacandra the final pleasure occurs when one mode of deception is exposed and another commences . These are the key passages for understanding Rāmacandra - Guṅacandra 's aesthetic theory : That they ( the four unpleasurable rasas ) elicit the feeling of camatkāra is what happens after the savoring of rasa has ended , and is the result of the genius of the poet or the skill of the actor in showing things as they really are . Indeed , those who take pride in courage are astounded by the deft attack of a hero , even if it leads to someone 's decapitation . Wise people , having been deceived by the feeling of camatkāra produced by the talent of a poet or an actor , which causes the whole body to be suffused with pleasure , experience the state of the highest bliss even in unpleasurable rasas such as pitiful , etc . 83 And on hearing the word " Rāma " and [ grasping ] its conventional meaning , while also becoming captivated by the beautiful music , the spectator identifies actors with Rāma and the other characters , who , distinguished though they are from those characters by difference in time , space , and nature , appear to be the characters by concealing that distinction through the fourfold process of acting . As a consequence , the spectator becomes fully absorbed in all Rāma 's and the other characters ' states , happy or sad . 84 Rāmacandra and Guṅacandra employ the notions of camatkāra and paramānanda , firmly established in Sanskrit poetics by the twelfth century , and present them in a novel way . The audience comes to enjoy drama or poetry as a result of being in a state of double deception . Firstly , by presenting things realistically , brilliant acting or excellent poetry leads the audience members to forget that drama portrays a fictional world and to identify actors with the characters . Further , the viewers themselves become so absorbed in the dramatic action that they identify with the characters ' states and experience pleasant and unpleasant rasas along with them . After the savoring of the rasa ends , they realize that they have been beguiled by the genius of actors and poets and attain the state of camatkāra . Secondly , while 82 David Shulman , electronic correspondence from 02/24/2018 . 83 Somewhat modified translation of Pollock ( 2016 , pp . 241 - 242 ) . SV to 3.7 , p. 141 : yat punar ebhir api camatkāro dṛśyate sa rasāsvādavirāme sati yathāvasthitavastupradarśakena kavinaṭaśaktikauśalena | vismanyate hi śiraśchedakāriṇāpi prahārakuśalena vairiṇā śauṇḍīramāninaḥ | anenaiva ca sarvāṅgāhlādakena kavinaṭaśaktijanmanā camatkāreṇa vipralabdhāḥ paramānandarūpatāṃ duḥkhātmakeṣv api karuṇādiṣu sumedhasaḥ pratijānate | 84 Somewhat modified translation of Pollock ( 2016 , p. 246 ) . SV to 3.50ab : prekṣako ' pi rāmādiśabdasaṅketaśravaṇād atihṛdyasaṅgītakāhitavaivaśyāc ca svarūpadeśakālabhedenātathābhūteṣv apy abhineyacatuṣṭayācchādanāt tathābhūteṣv iva naṭeṣu rāmādīn adhyavasyati | ata eva tāsu tāsu sukhaduḥkharūpāsu rāmādyavasthāsu tanmayībhavati | captivated by this pleasurable sensation of camatkāra , the viewers feel the highest joy and misconstrue its true cause by locating it in the rasas themselves . In this way , the audience is first deluded by poetry and acting that present the fictional world with such realism , and then they are led to misidentify the source of their intense pleasure . Rāmacandra and Guṅacandra support their theory , which involves a series of cognitive errors , by reminding the reader that the erotic and other rasas can indeed be produced by an illusion ( bhrānti ) , such as a dream . 85 For Abhinavagupta , as we have seen , the savoring of rasa , as a form of awareness , belongs only to the spectator . The authors of the Nāṭyadarpaṇa locate rasa in the character , the actor , the spectator of drama , and the listener or reader of poetry , and classify the perception of rasa into direct and indirect and as pertaining to oneself and to another ( svaparayoḥ pratyakṣaparokṣābhyām ) . 86 Because the spectator can not read the character 's mind ( cetodharmāṇām atīndriyatvāt ) , 87 he or she perceives rasa in the character or actor only indirectly ( parokṣa ) , through the actor 's physical reactions ( anubhāvas ) . Meanwhile , the actor may or may not experience rasa himself ; if he does , his physical reactions are the effects of his rasas ( rasakāryāḥ ) ; alternatively , they merely generate rasa in the audience ( prekṣakagatarasāṇāṃ kāraṇam ) . 88 Only the actual characters are capable of experiencing rasa in a clear form ( spaṣṭarūpāḥ ) , since the foundational factors are real for them ( vibhāvānāṃ paramārthasattvāt ) , and thus both their foundational factors and physical reactions , produced by rasa , also appear in a clear , unobscured form . Spectators , alternatively , perceive rasa in an unclear form ( dhyāmalenaiva rūpeṇa ) , because foundational factors ( ālambanavibhāvas ) such as Sītā , as wife , or Rāma , as husband , do not exist for them in reality ( vibhāvānām aparamārthasatām eva ) . 89 While rasa in the spectator appears in the unclear form , it also manifests as a stable emotion that is an intensified mental state . 90 Upon understanding the meaning of the drama or poem , spectators savor rasa as their own internal state such as joy . 91 Enjoying rasa is not like eating sweetmeats , that is to say , savoring something external to oneself . It is an entirely internal experience ; one 's own feelings of fear or grief are transformed into the fearful or pitiful rasa by means of the appropriate vibhāvas in the drama . 92 This ontological model raises a question : How can the spectator 's rasa have an unclear and indistinct form ( dhyāmala ) , if it is ultimately his or her internal feeling such as joy or fear ? Prabhācandra 's Prameyakamalamārtaṇḍa , " The Sun of the Lotus of the Objects of True Knowledge " ( eleventh century ) , a treatise on Jain logic , states that sukha and other internal states are perceived directly ( without the intervention of another means of knowledge or an obstacle . 94 Unlike most non - Jain philosophers , 95 Jains do not believe that the eye makes contact with an object of perception . 96 As such , pratyakṣa or direct perception is simply understood as clear knowledge , viśada or spaṣṭa . 97 Indirect knowledge , which is mediated through invariable concomitance ( vyāptijñāna ) , is different from pratyakṣa in that it is not clear ( aspaṣṭatvenāpratyakṣam ) . 98 Rāmacandra - Guṅacandra 's term for a rasa that is not clear ( spaṣṭa ) and has the generalized foundational factor as its object ( sāmānyastrīviṣayaḥ ) is dhyāmala . 99 Therefore , the question posed at the beginning of this paragraph can be rephrased : How do Rāmacandra and Guṅacandra resolve the discrepancy in which the spectator 's rasa is not clear ( spaṣṭa ) or within the purview of direct perception ( pratyakṣa ) , while it is ultimately an internal feeling such as joy or fear ? The answer is that they do so by rendering the spectator 's rasa supernormal or lokottara . 100 Rāmacandra and Guṅacandra must have borrowed the term and concept lokottara from Abhinavagupta , who glosses tasting ( rasanā ) as a type of awareness ( bodharūpaiva ) , different from other normal types of awareness ( kiṃtu bodhāntarebhyo laukikebhyo vilakṣaṇaiva ) , and rasa as a lokottara object of that experience . 101 While Abhinavagupta makes carvaṇā or rasanā a type of alaukika or supernormal knowledge , distinct from direct perception , or pratyakṣa , memory , or smṛti , and inference , or anumāna , he admits that in the initial stages rasa is contingent upon inference , even if it is a different kind of inference . 102 Rāmacandra and Guṅacandra , too , suggest that the spectator must first infer the correct emotion from the physical reactions of the actors ( which serve as the inferential mark or liṅga ) and the foundational factors they enact . Additionally , they accept the possibility of a normal epistemological means for the comprehension of rasa such as memory , a proposition that I will explain below . 94 Prameyakamalamārtaṇḍa , p. 600 : pramāṇāntaravyavadhānāvyavadhānasadbhāvena vaiśadyetarasambhavāt | 95 See Granoff ( 1978 , pp . 45 - 47 ) Ingalls et al . ( 1990 , p. 224 ) . Locana p. 187 : pratītir eva viśiṣṭā rasanā | sā ca nāṭye laukikānumānapratīter vilakṣaṇā , tāṃ ca pramukhe upāyatayā sandadhānā | See also Pollock 's translation ( 2016 , p. 83 ) of Ś aṅkuka who distinguishes the inference of rasa from regular types of inference ; see Masson and Patwardhan ( 1969 , p. 10 ) on Ś aṅkuka 's rejection of regular types of knowledge .

By thinking this way , we could assign a visibility of electronic processes in contrast to obscurantist analog forms . In their struggle to abolish noise , digital media make clear the commitment uniquely to the recorded object ( a figure without a ground ) and not with the interference from the machines . Noise jeopardizes the privileged view of the viewer , hence it would depart him / her from reality . This position ignores how mediated digital images are , excluding part of the experience considered as unimportant , but , at the same time , compromising a comprehensive apprehension of things . The control of images is so unavoidable , that , paradoxically , it seems that recording them is a quasi - direct perception , not conditioned by material determinants . It is actually a simulacrum of transparency .

This becomes a structural disturbance once she starts receiving other characters ' data , extending into occasional glimpses of the future , and culminates in anticipations of the very textual formulations she is being rendered into ( cf . TFv2 562 - 63 ) and direct perception of Narcons , liberally using material leaked from their " internal " metanarrative ( cf . TFv4 310 - 20 ) , breaching Parameter 3 in an apparent " takeover " of TF - Narcon 9 . The final scenes with Tian Li fully display Xanther 's newfound cognitive superiority , arising from signiconic areas beyond known languages : overriding existing codes , extending contact beyond the translatable , it defeats the Narcons ' limitations : " something else is overwriting communication " ( TFv5 415 ) . The Familiar could be read 60 Xanther cosplayers hint at the possibility of The Familiar being a game , distributed online ( " on the phones , " TFv5 252 - 53 ) , perhaps situated within pure virtuality , while what we are reading is a given playthrough by person or persons unknown . This would explain many ontological " lapses , " including the Narcons ' investment in the outcome of the game in progress , as yet unknown and subject to various glitches . as a provisional figurative inscription of this new unknown entity , not as a picture of its physiognomy but as an enactment of its functions : still ostensibly a book telling a story , but actually embodying something else 's " becoming - print . " Information overload suffered by Xanther might be another mise en abyme for a reader faced with a truly unprecedented data onslaught : there are longer novels than The Familiar , but very few of similar scope and information density , not to mention its demands in terms of specialized vocabularies , idiomatic diversity , polyglossia ( with its graphic equivalents ) , visual literacy , etc . The first " proper " chapter , " How Many Raindrops ? " , takes human computational capacity as its thematic refrain : beyond the Apollinaire reference discussed above , rain is an all - encompassing phenomenon , an ontological " ambience " lacking clear focus and assimilating untold multiplicities into a polycentric event . 61 This is a supreme cognitive challenge , a " figure without a number , maybe without a name " ( TFv1 50 ) , threatening to trigger one of Xanther 's epileptic seizures . Further down the line , seizures themselves are described as electric disturbances caused by " an overwhelming amount of information in the brain " ( TFv1 350 ) , an excessive synchronous neuronal firing , in line with the motif of " tiny storms " proliferating from her in Clip # 6 and blackening the rest of the clips by the end of Volume 5 . This is also one of numerous hints that Xanther is not only the primary source of all text - processing disturbances but also the overarching " system " at work , fundamentally " containing " the world of the novel . An aside from TF - Narcon 9 62 implies that everything is a product of Xanther 's activity , or at least a series of subsets of her as a " superset " ( a visual intimation of this is hidden in plain sight on all frontispieces of her chapters , illustrated with nine orbs ) . The " Ioxaswalj " cipher , buried among dozens of possible names for " the little one " ( TFv3 255 ) , might simply be an amusing red herring ( an acronym of the nine characters ' names ) , but it could also work as a microindex of Xanther 's ontological superiority over other characters . " Is she even a time being ? " , a " sci - fi " question posed by TF - Narcon 3 ( TFv3 102 ) , places her outside of narrative constrained by causality and temporality , but this is the polar opposite of 61 " There is a mode of individuation very different from that of a person , subject , thing , or substance . [ ... ] A season , a winter , a summer , an hour , a date have a perfect individuality , " consisting " entirely of relations of movement and rest between molecules or particles , capacities to affect and be affected " ( Deleuze and Guattari , A Thousand Plateaus , . This idea has recently gained wider influence via Jane Bennett 's work ( Vibrant Matter : A Political Ecology of Things , Durham : Duke University Press , 2010 ) , exploring a vitalist " materiality that is as much force as entity , as much energy as matter , as much intensity as extension " ( 20 ) , an agency " distributed across an ontologically heterogeneous field " ( 23 ) as a " confederation of human and nonhuman elements " ( 21 ) . There is a transient operational unity to this field , " a life of the it in ' it rains ' " ( 53 ) . 62 " As if anyone else here could be doing the thinking " ( TFv3 403 ) . the synchrony of death and perfection : a transhistorical " becoming in a pure state " 63 cutting across extant structures in a move of deterritorialization . " The Roar " finally demonstrates this , bursting through the Narcons ' procedures , the parameters of the book itself , and entangling all characters in a dispersed paranormal event ( a tail - end compositional parallel to the incessant rain of the first volume ) , clearly stemming from Xanther and inscribing the peak of her powers ( as reached within Season One ) .

When reflecting on knowledge process and cognitive capabilities , one often focuses on sensory knowledge ( including sensations , perceptions and representations ) and rational knowledge ( including concepts , judgment and deduction ) as the basic factors determining the process of acquiring of the truth knowledge . These have been the fundamental points in the epistemology of many dominant Western rationalist philosophical theories until today . ( Ambrozy , 2014 ) However , these rationalist theories of knowledge have paid scarce attention to other unique human cognitive abilities , particularly intuition . Since the nineteenth century , Western philosophical irrational theories have emphasized intuition as a special human power . Among them were A. Schopenhauer 's Philosophy of life , Henri Bergson 's Intuitionalism , Edmund Husserl ' Phenomenology , S. Freud 's Psychoanalysis , the Existentialism of Martin Heidegger and Jean - Paul Sartre and so on . Many different conceptions of intuition were formed and developed before that in the history of Western philosophy , science and religion , however . Concerning this topic , a series of questions can be asked : What is intuition ? How is it related to hunch , premonition , sixth sense , telepathy or religious revelation ? What are the main conceptions of intuition in the history of Western philosophy , science and religion ? What forms of intuition are there in social life ? What are the characteristics of traditional Vietnamese philosophical thoughts on intuition ? In this article , based on analyzing some conceptions of intuition in the history of Western philosophy , science and religion , we give some comparative interpretations on intuition from traditional Vietnamese philosophical thoughts , especially Confucianism , Daoism , Buddhism , Zen Buddhism . We will demonstrate that intuition is a universal term that is valid not only in Western philosophy but also in Eastern philosophy , particularly in Vietnamese philosophical thoughts . Moreover , intuition is carefully analyzed by so - called ' irrational philosophers ' ( i.e. existentialists or phenomenologists ) such as A. Schopenhauer , H. Bergson , S. Freud , E. Husserl , M. Heidegger , J.-P. Sartre , etc . Intuition is also one of the important and complex research objects of philosophy . This is a controversial issue in the history of Western philosophy . Until now , there has been no unified concept of intuition because this concept is sometimes understood as rational , sometimes as irrational , unable to be verified by empirical facts . Even in ancient times , the problem of intuition gained the attention of philosophers such as Plato and Aristotle . Plato considered intuition to be a form of direct knowledge , unexpected and super - sensory insight , or a means to gain absolute knowledge about ideas and the idea world . Plato was one of the first thinkers who mention intellectual intuition as contemplation of ideas , which are considered to be the prototype of things in the world of sensory things or as a direct knowledge type and an unexpected insight . Aristotle asserts that human beings have intellectual intuition as the ability to capture directly and unmistakably the nature of things and understand their essence . ( Pietka , 2015 ) In the Medieval period , intuition was also a live philosophical topic . In his works " On the Trinity " and " Confessions , " Augustin of Hippo Rhegius repeatedly states that , in order to achieve the satisfaction of the soul , the individual does not need to turn to the external senses , but must focus on " Inner feeling " or " understanding " as the character through which the soul feels , exists and thinks . ( Godawa , 2015 ) Augustin offers the idea of God 's intuition as a religious revelation to perceive God through the human soul and to know the human soul through God ( Le , 2000 : 49 ) . In the Early Modern period , there were philosophical debates about intuition from the position of empiricism and rationalism . Descartes was one of the first modern rationalist philosophers to address intellectual intuition , a topic of interest by other philosophers such as Spinoza , Kant , Fichte , and Schelling , closely related to the concept of man . According to Descartes , intuition is the highest form of reason , and the sign of intuition knowledge is evidentness , clarity , and simplicity . From here , he considers the thesis " I think , therefore I am " as the axiom , a theoretical point that is obvious and can be perceived intuitively . This is the foundation for his whole rationalist philosophical system built on the basis of the deductive method . Acknowledging emotions and passions as the third fundamental phenomenon of human nature , after thinking and movement , Descartes does not consider them as cognitive powers . He regards reason as the only source of reliable knowledge . Descartes writes : " In human reason , there are already first concepts or ideas as seeds of truths perceived by us " ( Descartes , 1950 : 350 ) . He regards evidentness and clarity as the standard of truth of knowledge acquired intuitively . According to Descartes , intellectual intuition is the necessary cognitive power or " mental activity , " which can access to innate transcendental knowledge or witness its truth . ( Van de Pitte , 1988 ) Regarding the nature of intuition , Spinoza asserts that there are three types of knowledge that are suitable for four types of perceptions . Intuitive knowledge is based on the fourth type of perception in which things are perceived through their nature or awareness of their causes ( Spinoza , 1957 : 325 ) . In the decades of the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries , there was a new philosophical trend that criticized rationalism . One of the important beginnings of this trend was I. Kant 's critique of reason , particularly through his trio of critical works . However , rejecting intellectual intuition as human cognitive power , Kant believes that this is why people can not perceive things - in - themselves , but only their phenomena . According to him , only God , as an infinite being , can have intellectual intuition . In spite of denying the intellectual intuition of human beings , Kant acknowledges space and time as transcendental innate forms and indispensable conditions for sensory intuitions . According to him , human beings can not perceive things - in - themselves because they do not have intellectual intuition . ( Wilson , 1975 ) For Fichte and Schelling , intuition is not passive but active . Fichte also acknowledges the role of intuition but asserts that it is impossible to prove it by concepts and that each person needs to find intuition within himself or herself . According to him , intuition is the event of each individual consciousness ; at the same time , it is the universal foundation of philosophy and the basis of activities of the cognitive subject . And F. W. J. Schelling emphasizes the role of intuition and considers intuition to be an act of performing the identity between subject and object . " When the contemplating ego immerses itself into itself , it becomes identified with the contemplated ego . " ( Schelling 1987 , 68 ) . Schelling considers intuition to be a form of full awareness of the absolute . According to him , intuition is " the deepest inner experience , and everything we know about the supersensory world depends on it . " ( Schelling , 1987 : 68 ) This criticism of reason and science has led to a unique philosophical trend in Western philosophy since the nineteenth century -the irrationalism . Philosophical irrationalists ( F. Jacobi , S. Kierkegaard , etc . ) focus on intuitive knowledge instead of rational knowledge . The contribution of irrationalism is to show other capacities apart from human reason , specifically to affirm the existence of irrational perception by intuition or mystic intuition as direct perception ( Mahrik et al . , 2018;Pavlikova 2018;Martin et al . , 2020 ) , in which the world is seen as a unified whole of all forms of existence . For example , A. Schopenhauer sees the world voluntaristically and as representation . Different from the philosophical trend of classical rationalism and scientism , representatives of the philosophical trend of irrationalism , such as H. Bergson and E. Husserl , emphasize intuition as an irrational inner experience . In his work , " Introduction to Metaphysics , " Bergson considers intuition as a special kind of sympathy for the object , as the human universal power attached to life and to the will . Husserl also understands intuition not in such a traditional way , while directing to the consideration or contemplation of intellect as a way of recognizing the world and human beings . Other philosophers such as A. Schopenhauer , M. Scheler , M. Heidegger see intuition as a kind of broader and more dynamic generalization or as a special form of profound , overall , and irrational knowledge which has advantages over logical thinking . Criticizing the creative power of reason and its ability to bring about objective knowledge , Schopenhauer argues that reason itself does not extend human knowledge but only can give knowledge a different form , mainly bring about what can be intuitively perceived to reach the clear and general perception ( Schopenhauer , 1998 : 166 ) . According to him , the sensation is different from intuition : the sensation is only material for intuition . However , the limitation of this irrationalism is to refuse rational perception and to absolutize the opposition between intuition and intellect . H. Bergson was one of the first thinkers who mention the possibility of mutual complementarity between rational and intuitive perception . He regards intuition as a manifestation of the biological instinct that is opposed to intellect . On the contrary , Husserl 's phenomenology considers intuition in a rationalist view rather than a contrast between intuition and rational perception . Moreover , intuition is considered by him to be the basis for rational perception . Phenomenological intuition is a direct contemplation of pure essences , so it is closer to Descartes 's intellectual intuition than to Schelling 's superrational mystic intellectual intuition . This kind of mystical intuition is still of little research interest from a philosophical perspective . In addition , some Western religious theories also mention mystical intuition . They claim that God can only be known directly by intuition through revelation . For example , Friedrich Schleiermacher 's doctrine emphasizes the role of sensation associated with intuition in religious experience . ( Zalec , Pavlikova 2019 ) His conception influences many later thinkers , including Ernst Troeltsch , Rudolf Otto , and Paul Tillich , who stress the role of intuition in the exclusive dependence on reason or tradition . However , most traditional theological thoughts , especially within Christianity , claim that it is impossible to have access to the full knowledge of God in this life , so it is necessary to have dogmas based on traditional revelation . The Russian philosopher N. O. Lossky also refers to mystical intuition as the ability to reveal God . ( Sladek , 2017 ) In short , from the conceptions given in the history of Western philosophy , religion , and science , the following major types of intuition can be drawn : sensory intuition , intellectual intuition , irrational intuition , and mystical intuition .

============================================================Group: 1============================================================
Gibson 's theory of affordances ( Gibson , 1979 ) is the theory of a direct perception of the environment by a subject who is involved in his environment . It has been used by anthropologists Ingold ( 2000Ingold ( , 2002 and Milton ( 2002 ) to conceptualize the relationship between people and their natural environment , including animals . Affordances are " properties of the real environment as directly perceived by an agent in a context of practical action " ( Ingold , 2002 , p. 46 , my emphasis ) . Affordance theory postulates that information is present in the environment , it does n't need to be constructed by a subject . Meaning is not imposed , nor " attributed " by a disengaged observer upon environment , but it is discovered by someone who is implicated in , and oriented by a practical action . " The man throwing the stone did not , we suppose , first " construct " the stone as a missile by attaching a meaning or " throw - quality " to impressions of it received through the senses . [ . . . ] . Rather , it was the very involvement of the man in his environment , in the practical context of throwing , that led him to attend to the " throwability " of the object , by virtue of which it was perceived as a missile . Such direct perception of the environment is a mode of engagement with the world , not a mode of construction of it " ( Ingold , 2002 , p. 44 ) . 3 In its insistence on the discovering of properties in the environment according to the involvement of the subject in a practical action , Gibson 's perspective sounds very much like pragmatism . Perception is guided by the practical action , and the environment exist for a given organism . Indeed , organism and environment make " an inseparable pair " ( Gibson , 1979 , p. 18 ) .

Building from J. J. Gibson 's ( 1979 ) theory of affordance , and echoing Clark and Chalmers ' ( 1998 ) ' parity principle ' , 7 Malafouris ( 2013;Malafouris & Renfrew , 2010 ) argues that as causal effectivity shifts beyond the skin , so do cognitive and agential processes . From an ecologically embodied perspective , tools , as and where they function to alter scope and or effectivity of bodily skills , are considered constitutive parts of the cognitive process , and as active extensions of the perceptionaction cycle ( Mangalam & Fragaszy , 2016;Smitsman , 1997;Smitsman & Bongers , 2012 ) . J. J. Gibson ( 1979 ) alludes to this co - constitution in referring to tools as a ' special kind of detached object ' ( Susi & Ziemke , 2005 , p. 11 ) , which , once attached ( i.e. when in use ) , are no longer environmental objects , suggesting that , through constitution , a continuum of organism and tool exists such that if a tool - using goal is intended by the tool user , it is intended by the tool also . As Ga¨rdenfors and Lombard ( 2018 ) draw a correlation between grades of causal cognitive complexity and degrees of force extension and transmission , so we can see tools as more ' complex ' forms of direct perception , agential vectors extending and transmitting the ' manipulatory area ' ( cf . Mead , 1938 ) through their plastic shaping of the user 's perception of peri - and extra - personal space ( Maravita & Iriki , 2004;Scandola et al . , 2019 ) . Ihde ( 1979Ihde ( , 1990 ) relates a similar idea with his concept of ' technics ' , as the ' symbiosis of artefact and user within a human action ' ( p. 73 , emphasis added ) , which he uses to describe the perceptual transparency typical of skilled tool use , in which , through time and an extended period of habituation ( following Bourdieu , 1977 ) , the causality of a tool is experienced as an extension of the agential self , so that material interaction through skilled tool use is as epistemic as it is pragmatic . If , as Ingold ( 2000 ) argues , technical enskilment is a process of explorative material engagement whereby affordances arise , then skilled tool use is the cultivated causal cognitive ability to be solicited by the appropriate affordances of a given task as they arise .

We have already described the mesological link . The Gibson 's term ' affordances ' [ 87 ] describing the relationships between animals and the environment eliminates the mechanistic view of a " machine " animal and neutral environment . On the contrary it is active , in other words , the field of multiple possibilities of action that the animal chooses is easily transposed to plants in its sense of ' awakening sensitivity ' to the surrounding world and processing information in interaction with the environment . This active plasticity has the potential to engender , in the first as in the other case and with different degrees of integration , a schema of interpretation of the outside world . This concept of opportunistic action in a bio - or even phytosemiotic environment ( Kull , 2000 ) [ 88 ] and/or making action possible without causing it , is also totally transposable to plants following Calvo et al . ( 2011Calvo et al . ( , 2017 , provided that it do not limit it to direct perception and interaction with an environment considered unambiguous [ 40,45 ] . Indeed , while vegetative semiotics is mainly aimed at morphogenesis and differentiation following the founding works of Uexküll taking into account the thresholds between species , the fact that it is subject to a changing environment and by ambiguous essence asks it to make ' choices ' or at least to adopt complex dynamic behaviors where the conditions of survival , reactivity and growth are intimately linked to their interaction with the environment [ 26,31 ] .

Advances in perception - action research , particularly Gibson 's work on direct perception ( Gibson , 1966(Gibson , , 1979 , changes the nature of the problem facing the organism . Perception is not critically flawed . In fact , we have extremely high quality , direct perceptual access to the world . This means that perception ( and by extension , the environment ) can be a useful resource , rather than a problem to be overcome by cognitive enrichment . Embodied cognition ( in any form ) is about acknowledging the role perception , action , and the environment can now play .

Given that the ecological approach relies on James Gibson 's theory of direct perception ( J. Gibson , 1972Gibson , /2002 , we should understand affordances not as inferred through our perception of the environment , but as directly perceived . We see an apple as edible , rather than post - perceptually inferring that it is edible ( for example , Nanay , 2011 ) . Further , while apples can offer the possibility of sustenance or afford being eaten , this might only be perceived as a relevant affordance if an agent is actively searching for something to eat ; if I were looking for something to hold down a paper that was in danger of blowing away , an apple might instead afford the possibility of serving that purpose for me .

Here , we acknowledge that ethnographic data predominantly constitutes indirect knowledge about the environment , whereas affordances are utilized with knowledge of , or direct perception in , the environment ( van der Kamp et al . , 2019 ) . While fully outlining these points is beyond the scope of the current paper it will be important for future research . Crucially , Araújo et al . ( 2017 ) stated that gains in direct perception can be mediated through communication about the environment and Gibson ( 1979 ) explained that " images , pictures , and written - on surfaces afford a special kind of knowledge [ about the environment ] . . . mediated or indirect , knowledge at second hand " ( p. 42 ; text in brackets added ) . We propose that second - hand knowledge about the environment collected via ethnographic methods can illuminate the value - directedness of player - environment intentionality and play a vital role in aiding coaches ' awareness of value - directedness . However , in the context of learning in football , we contend that providing second - hand knowledge about the football environment is vastly inferior to facilitating the direct perception of affordances in the football environment .

To achieve this aim , we begin by discussing Ecological Psychology as a framework to dissolve the dualisms , dichotomies , and decontextualization that plagues sport research and applied practice . Founded in the Gibsonian branch of Ecological Psychology ( Gibson , 1979;Araújo , 2009 ) , we conceive the relation between values and direct perception through the work of Hodges and Baron ( 1992 ) , who contend that values act as constraints on affordance utilization ( fully introduced later ) . Our argument focuses on an aspect of intentionality Hodges and Baron ( 1992 ) called value - directedness , and we attempt to illustrate the extent to which intentionality is value - directed and affordances are value - realizing . Connecting to , and extending the literature on Ecological Dynamics , we illustrate how aspects of society and culture co - create a value - directedness ( of intentionality ) that acts as a constraint on the use of information to regulate actions , affordance utilization , and skill development . To aid sports practitioners in understanding and adapting to this variety of sociocultural constraint , we offer an additional principle to non - linear pedagogy that encompasses constraintled coaching Renshaw and Chow , 2019 ) . Namely , the need to shape the value - directedness of player - environment intentionality , or more concisely , the need to continuously shape skilled intentions during performance interactions .

Perception in AIF is thus not an additive process , but a generative one , which matters here for an important class of cases , namely , those in the cultural ( as opposed to natural ) domain . The cultural domain has physically bound cases with no natural equivalent , such as the operation of a door with a doorknob . We see many naturalistic examples in Gibson 's writings , concerning , e.g. , tunnels ( which may occur in nature ) , but he also wishes to extend his theory to the human cultural environment ( Gibson , 1966 ) . Moreover , he wants to allow for a concept of learning ( at best , coarsely defined ) , while simultaneously objecting to a model of mental storage and retrieval ( Gibson , 1979(Gibson , /1986 ) . How then , should it be possible to learn how a doorknob works such that " direct perception " of one ( via ambient optical arrays ) is at once the perception of a means for opening the door , without any specified mechanism for establishing this correspondence ? If the correspondence is merely a conditioned association , then how can he avoid the claim ( as he intends ) that past experience is added to the present ? Despite Gibson 's professed aversion to computation and traditional perceptual inference , the deeper problem here is that his theory recapitulates and is thus still bound by the classical/ computational input / output model ( cf . Bickhard and Richie , 1983 ) . To better understand this issue , we must turn to his concept of affordances . For clarity , we will first establish how AIF re - describes aspects of Gibson 's ecological framework in terms of the generative model .

Through a continuous series of perception / action loops , the embodied agent remains in open exchange with the world by actively probing its environment ( Kruschke , 2008 ) and leveraging the control information of the generative model to alter the thermodynamic substrate ( its physical position and condition ) . Even Gibson could not object to this sense of inference : there can be no " direct perception " of the future ! Here , however , is where the uncertainty and unknowability of the future can be understood as a feature of AIF that is lacking in ecological psychology , namely , concerning conditional future outcomes . Even on the most charitable reading of Gibson , assuming we can explain ( without magic ) that one could " directly " perceive that " the doorknob affords opening the door " based on the ambient optical array , conventional affordance theory is left stranded in the face of an invisibly locked or broken doorknob . That is , when the doorknob fails to open the door , the exteroceptively ascertained ambient optical array remains identical before and after the attempt . Thus , within Gibson 's framework , the doorknob forcibly remains an apparent affordance even with prior information that it does not open the door in this case . In such ecologically valid scenarios commonly faced by human cognition , it is a severe meta - theoretical weakness if they can not be adequately addressed .

The issue now emerging in the theory of intentionality is a new conception of duality based on interference between receiving and transmitting signals . Such a principle had been put forth by the American pragmatists , most clearly by John Dewey [ 37 ] in his critiques of the conditional reflex . It was further developed by Gestalt psychologists , who led to the conception of a field of force which resonated with brain dynamics . Koffka [ 38 ] expanded this concept to include interactions between fields of force in the environment and in the brain . James Gibson further introduced the concept of " affordance " to complement his theory of direct perception that stands in sharp contrast with the prevalent inferential theories of perception [ 39 ] . Affordance theory states that the world is perceived not only in terms of object shapes and spatial relationships but also in terms of object possibilities for action . This view was similar to the " intentional arc " of Merleau - Ponty , but with the difference that an affordance was provided by information in an object , and the resonance transferred that information into the cortex . According to Merleau - Ponty , the intentional state defined the object in terms of a goal created in the brain , corresponding to " maximum grip " , with its unity of inner context [ 2 ] [ 40 ] . In the ideas of the behavioral concept of Merleau - Ponty , Freeman gave new life to principle of least action of energy minimization . In his neurophysiological model of intentionality , energy minimization is spontaneously achieved by nonlinear dynamical systems based both on classical neurobiology and considerations of quantum mechanics [ 41]- [ 47 ] . Vitiello further accepted the general view of Freeman , but he introduced considerations of quantum thermofield ( dissipation ) neurodynamics to explain intentionality and consciousness : he proposed a model of dual modes of the ground on vacuum state [ 4 ] [ 5 ] [ 48]- [ 50 ] . Based on electromagnetic physical properties , this model of intentionality became highly developed when Globus proposed his own thermofield framework theory of dual modes [ 51]- [ 54 ] . At the same time , theorists such as Johnjoe McFadden [ 55 ] and Susan Pockett [ 56 ] also suggested that consciousness could be understood as an electromagnetic phenomenon . The starting point for their electromagnetic field theory of consciousness ( called " CEMI field theory " by MacFadden ) was the fact that every time a neuron fires to generate an action potential , and a postsynaptic potential in the next neuron down the line [ 57 ] . Since neurons generate a disturbance in the surrounding electromagnetic field , McFadden and Pockett viewed the electromagnetic field of brain as arising from the induced electromagnetic field of neurons . The central idea of their theories was that the cerebral electromagnetic field creates a sort of representation of the information in the neuronal networks , and thereby a conscious experience . Studies argued indeed that conscious experience correlates not with the number of neuron firing , but with the synchrony of that firing [ 58 ] . However , one main difficulty with this theory is that it does not explain how such a electromagnetic process could lead to a single conscious experience in brain .

